---
title: "Learning to Learn"
date: 2018-03-09
tags: [essay, learning]
categories: [personal]
---

I love reading blogs, especially ones that seem genuine and not geared toward product promotion. I really respect people like Paul Graham and Julia Evans, who blog in a really readable, easy to parse way. There's something really engaging about reading the thoughts of a person who you respect and has an outlook you admire. Even if the subject is trivial, it still has an impact.

<!--description-->

I've had some form of a blog since high school. At the time, the platform-du-jour was Xanga, and my content was a lot more personal and gut-wrenching. It was pretty standard for people my age at that time, but I remember distinctly several times when I would just delete the entire thing, often 40-50 posts over a year or two, and start a fresh one with a new username. 

I think sometimes as creators, definitely for me anyway, people can become mortified when they look at something they made a long time ago and compare it to what they think they could make in the present. That's what was happening to me everytime I'd explode a Xanga page and make a new one. The feeling is amplified when the eyes of the public may be on your work. To be honest, I've actually done that exact same thing with this blog; the posts are in the archive directory of this very GitHub repo. And I had the urge to do it again today after thinking about how disorganized and incoherent a prior post may have been. But after thinking about it, I think it's important that we keep our past works visible, to ourselves and perhaps to others.

I've always been enamored with the idea that people can learn whatever they want to if they commit enough time and energy to it. The feeling is especially salient when playing guitar or piano - the progress is so measurable and apparent. One day I'm having trouble playing something, a riff or a chord progression, and after a few days of practice it becomes a lot easier. I think that sensation is really powerful. It's also addictive, and my guess is people who are dedicated thrive on that feeling of accomplishment and satisfaction to push themselves forward. The only danger in this is forgetting how much progress you've made. Writing or blogging, compared to playing an instrument, is harder for me to judge my progress.

Me writing a blog entry is really an accomplishment. I wish I had more interesting things to talk about; sometimes I think I do, but suddenly when I sit down to type them out the valve shuts. That's why I'm attempting to practice here. And by leaving all of my old stupid entries that I grow to hate (this very post might become one as well), I can look back on them and see progress. When I started recording my own music (about 5 or 6 years ago I'd guess) I committed to post every song that I finish on SoundCloud, even if it sucks or is emabarassing. And most of them were pretty bad. But when I have a chance to go back and revisit some of those songs knowing what I know now about recording and music production, it gives me a really cool sense of progress. I live in a time where I can leave breadcrumbs or artifacts of things that I learn to do. It's kind of a cool retrospective in a way. Is it selfish or egotistical? I don't really think so; I don't advertise this blog anywhere, or my SoundCloud account really. Most of it is just for me. 

Sometimes I think back to when I first started my job as a part-time intern, and how intimidated I felt. There were so many things that I'd learned about in textbooks (namely DNS and DHCP) that just didn't make sense to me when I was looking at them as real things in a real working environment. It made me feel kind of dumb. But now that I've been in this position for 2 years, that stuff seems so easy. I *love* that feeling. And I know there's so much left for me to learn. I've been working on a mental list of things I'd like to study for a while - maybe I'll write a post about it?
